# Swift
Swift was created by Apple as a direct replacement to the Objective-C language previously used by all of their systems. Because of this unique background, Swift has a somewhat more clearly defined purpose than many languages. It simply strives to be a cleaner, safer, more modern replacement for Objective-C. It retains much of the familiar syntax of C and C-like languages (such as many of the operators, curly brace structure, and control statements) but eliminates a great deal of the pain points (such as header files, raw pointers, initialized variables, and even semicolons). Special care was even taken to support bi-directional interoperability between the two, allowing the programmer to call their Objective-C code from Swift, and their Swift code from Objective-C. 

As the language matures, Swift has begun to see some adoption outside of the Apple ecosystem. Most notably, IBM's Swift@IBM initiative has published a great deal of Swift frameworks intended for use in their Bluemix cloud ecosystem. Server side swift in a more general sense has also seen a good deal of adoption as a back-end language for Swift apps. 

# Go
Go was designed by Google engineers, but not as an actual company initiative. These engineers simply set out to have a go at creating a modern, scalable language that resolved many common complaints they had with other popular languages. The core of the Go language was a response to the heavy verbosity, clumsiness, and fundamental OO design issues of C++ and Java, as well as the lack of speed, type safety, and scalability in Python and similar languages. Go was somewhat targeted at the niche of scalable networks systems programming, and has seen significant adoption in that arena already despite not being fully mature because of how well the language inherently lends itself to these applications. 
